Bradley Legg
Assignment #2 - Reflections, ideas, and planning
COMP.4630 Mobile App Development 1

1. Based on the reports of your fellow classmates during last night's
class (2020-09-09), please briefly summarize any new ideas for apps to
solve people's problems that you have come up with as a result of
listening to other students.
---
1A: During the class discussion there were too many ideas to count and many of them
gave me some more options to think about. Some of the ideas that seemed to have 
potential as a mobile app were the automated transcriptor (for business), the notes
organizer app, and friends meetup app for meetups at optimal travel distance for each 
person involved (suggestions of places or businesses to meet at as well). The automated 
transcript app could identify different speakers and provide the user access to all
meeting information discussed at a later date. The notes organizer app could take 
notes quickly taken down during a lecture and put reformat them into a more 
"studyable" format.

2. Several people mentioned the "conflict" between the desire to have
a free app, and developers' desire (and need) to get compensated. Can
you suggest any ways by which developers can reap their creativity's
and efforts' rewards without alienating their "customer base" by
inundating with ads and/or charging them.
---
2A: To avoid annoying the users with ads, developers can employ subscription services,
in app purchases, and selling merchandise or physical products with all of these as
optional (or required for subscription services) choices for the user. One of the most
poopular models is the freemium model, which gives users basic features for free and 
requires a payment for full access. These days almost every app requires a login and
some data to be given to them, which they can make money off of as is.

3. Please point to any app/software/website that offers in your
opinion an excellent UI/UX. Briefly explain in what ways you find its
UI/UX to be so good.
---
3A: A well known app I happen to think has great UI/UX is Reddit. Reddit provides users 
access to news, topics they are interested in, and popular posts trending around the
internet in a topbar menu on a single page. The UI is simple, sleek, and uncluttered.
As for the UX, Reddit provides countless community hosted pages for varying topics 
where the user can crowdsource information for questions or to use as a platform to
share content. The simplicity of the menu and value of the information and 
entertainment keeps the users coming back to Reddit day after day.

*The ads on Reddit are easy to scroll past and they do not ruin the experience.

4. Have last night's class discussions and/or items #1-3 gotten you
closer toward a mobile app you would like to pursue as a project for
this course? Please discuss briefly.
---
4A: These topics have made me think more about the significant aspects of a successful app.
In these three questions, two topics come to mind: ad-free (or less frequent unforced ads) 
as a source of revenue, a mixture of good UI/UX to keep the users coming back. There are 
plenty of examples of successful apps that we can all learn from to use as a basic for our
own designs. I am still leaning towards the automated transcripting app for business as I 
think this kind of app could be improved upon and become popular if designed well-enough.
